.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: ip_create_tap.1 1372 2023-02-12 17:18:38Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2017-2023 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH IP_CREATE_TAP 1 2023-02-12 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
ip_create_tap \- add a user-mode tap device to a bridge
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY ip_create_tap
.OP \-dry
.RI [ TAPNAME ]
.RI [ BRIDGENAME ]
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION

This script adds a tap device, named \fITAPNAME\fP or 'tap0' by default,
to a bridge, named \fIBRIDGENAME\fP or 'br0' by default.

The script first checks whether the tap device already exists and exits
if it does. Next, the script first checks whether the bridge exists and
exits with an error if not. Then, a tap device is created.
The tap device will be accessible to the user which executes the script.
Finally, the created tap device is connected to the bridge.

If the \fB\-dry\fP option is specified, the generated commands are only
printed and not executed.

The script should be run as a normal user. It uses \fBsudo\fR(8) to
execute privileged commands, and might therefore ask for the user password.

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
