.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: njobihtm.1 1244 2022-06-03 14:06:30Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2016-2022 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH NJOBIHTM 1 2022-06-03 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
njobihtm \- number of jobs considering hyper-threading and memory
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY njobihtm
.OP -h
.OP -m nnn[MG]
.OP -v
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The standard system \fBnproc\fP(1) command is often used to determine the
number of parallel jobs, e.g. in a 'make -j'.
It simply returns the total number of available threads.
On many processors with hyper-threading the usage of all hyper-threads is
contra-productive and can lead to a reduction of the throughput.
Experience showed that the optimum throughput is reached when one quarter of
the hyper-threads are used. If jobs require a substantial amount of memory
this can also limit the number of parallel jobs.

\fBnjobihtm\fP determines the number of CPU-intensive jobs based on the
number of CPU and memory resources. The 'ihtm' stands for 'intelligent
hyper-threading and memory'. The script

.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
determines the number of physical cores and the number of threads per core.
.IP "-"
adds a quarter of the hyper-threads unless the \fB\-n\fP option is given.
.IP "-"
if \fB-m\fP is given, determines the memory size, assumes that at least
one GB should be available for general usage, and limits the number of
jobs accordingly.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The number of jobs is written to \fIstdout\fP, and can be used like
\fBnproc\fP(1).
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.
.\" -- --nohyper ---------------------------------
.IP \fB\-n\fR 9
ignore hyper-threads, use only physical cores.
.\" -- --mem -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-m\ \fIsize\fR
gives the required physical memory per job.
\fIsize\fP must be given as an integer with either an 'M' or 'G', indicating MB
or GB.
.
.\" -- --verbose ---------------------------------
.IP \fB\-v\fP
the found system parameters and the reasoning is printed to \fIstderr\fP.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBmake -j `njobihtm` all\fR" 4
Start \fBmake\fR(1) with a reasonable number of jobs.
.IP "\fBnjobihtm -v -m=2G\fR" 4
Determines the number of jobs with 2 GB memory per job. On a system with 4 cores
and hyper-threading and 32 GB installed memory one gets due to the \fB\-v\fP
the output
.EX
    #cpus:        8
    #thread/cpu:  2
    #cores:       4
    #mem(MB):     31731
    #job (cpus):  5
    #job (mem):   14
    5
.EE
Note that the \fB\-v\fP output goes to \fIstderr\fP, only the answer '5'
to \fIstdout\fP.
.IP "\fBnjobihtm -v -n -m=3G\fR" 4
Determines the number of jobs with 3 GB memory per job. Only physical cores
are used. On a system with 4 cores and 32 GB installed memory one gets due
to the \fB\-v\fP the output
.EX
    #cpus:        8
    #thread/cpu:  2
    #cores:       4
    #mem(MB):     31731
    #job (cpus):  4
    #job (mem):   9
    4
.EE

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
