.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: ostest.1 1237 2022-05-15 07:51:47Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2019-2022 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH OSTEST 1 2022-05-09 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
ostest \- oskit test driver
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY ostest
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ KIT ]...
.
.SY ostest
.B \-\-help
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBostest\fP organizes the automatized testing of oskits. If no \fIKIT\fP
argument is given a default set of oskits is tested. The default set depends
on the available memory and thus on the board (specified with \fB\-\-sys\fP).
If  \fIKIT\fP arguments are given only these oskits will be tested.
\fBostest\fP starts for each oskit the operating system and executes
some commands to verify basic system functionality.

The major steps are:
.
.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
determine the execution mode, either from the \fB\-\-mode\fP option or the
default \fIrri\fP, and load the execution mode package.
.IP "-"
determine the target board, either from the \fB\-\-sys\fP option or from
the \fBEXPTEST_SYS\fP environment variable, and source the setup definition.
That defines board properties, like memory size, and the default set of oskits.
.IP "-"
configure the connected board if the \fB\-\-config\fP option is specified.
.IP "-"
for each oskit:
.
.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
source the oskit definition. That loads os family-specific code and defines
oskit-specific parameters.
.IP "-"
verify in the preboot procedure whether all preconditions for the execution
of the oskit are met, e.g. a network environment.
.IP "-"
check whether disk/tape images for the oskit are loaded, and if not,
download and unpack them with \fBoskit_setup\fP(1).
.IP "-"
boot the operating system and set the system time.
.IP "-"
execute some tests.
.IP "-"
execute shutdown procedure.
.IP "-"
wait till the CPU enters the HALT state.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.
.PD
.RE
.PP

.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-\-sys=\fIsys\fP"
Defines the system which is configured, or in case the \fB\-\-config\fP
is given, is to be configured. Must be specified if the \fBEXPTEST_SYS\fP
environment variable is not specified.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-\-mode=\fImode\fP"
Defines the execution mode. The default is \fIrri\fP and is currently the
only supported mode.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-\-log[=\fIfnam\fP]"
The output is written to a logfile. In case no name is specified an
automatically generated name will be used.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-\-logu\fP"
Show full session on \fIstdout\fP even when \fI\-\-log\fP is active.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-\-config\fP"
The connected board is configured with the system defined with the
\fB\-\-sys\fP option or the \fBEXPTEST_SYS\fP environment variable.
First is checked with a \fImake -n\fP whether the \fI<sys>.bit\fP file is
available and up-to-date. The script is aborted if the test fails.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fB\-help\fP"
print full help text and exit.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP \fBEXPTEST_SYS\fP 4
Defines the default system in case no \fB\-\-sys\fP option is given.
.IP \fBRETROBASE\fP
Defines root of all retro project files.
.
\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.IP "\fI$RETROBASE/tools/tcl/exptest_<mode>.tcl\fP" 4
Implementation for execution mode \fImode\fP.
.IP "\fI$RETROBASE/tools/exptest/sys/<sys>_setup.tcl\fP"
Setup file for system \fIsys\fP.
.IP "\fI$RETROBASE/tools/oskit/test/kit/<kit>_setup.tcl\fP"
Setup file for oskit \fIkit\fP.
.IP "\fI$RETROBASE/tools/oskit/test/os\fP"
Path for ostest environment for os class of oskit \fIkit\fP.
.IP "\fI$RETROBASE/tools/oskit/<kit>/\fP"
Path for execution environment for oskit \fIkit\fP.

.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBostest --sys=sys_w11a_n4d -log\fP" 4
This command expects that a Digilent Nexys4 A7 board is connected and already
configured with the \fIsys_w11a_n4d\fP system. It will execute the set of
default tests for this board and produce output like

.EX
    -I: log to ostest-2019-07-13-151006-sys_w11a_n4d.log
    ----- 15:10:06 (   0.0,   0.0): 211bsd_rpmin
    ----- 15:10:34 (  27.9,  27.9): 211bsd_rk
    ----- 15:11:00 (  53.9,  26.0): 211bsd_rl
    ----- 15:11:27 (  80.7,  26.8): 211bsd_rp
    ----- 15:11:55 ( 109.0,  28.3): 211bsd_rpeth
    -I: 'tap0' device required but not available
    -I: skip kit '211bsd_rpeth'
.EE

The \fI211bsd_rpeth\fP test was skipped because preconditions were not
fulfilled.

.IP "\fBostest --sys=sys_w11a_arty -log 211bsd_rpmin rsx11mp-30_rp\fP"
This command expects that a Digilent Arty board is connected and already
configured with the \fIsys_w11a_arty\fP system and executes the
\fI211bsd_rpmin\fP and \fIrsx11mp-30_rp\fP tests.

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR oskit_setup (1),
.BR mctest (1)

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
