.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: tbrun_tbwrri.1 1237 2022-05-15 07:51:47Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2016-2022 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH TBRUN_TBWRRI 1 2016-09-17 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
tbrun_tbw \- \fBti_rri\fP plus \fBtbw\fP-based test bench starter
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY tbrun_tbwrri
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.I  TBENCH
.RI [ COMMAND ]...
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP is a convenience script for starting \fBti_rri\fP(1) plus
\fBtbw\fP(1)-based test benches. It will

.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
issue a \fBmake\fP(1) command to (re)-build \fITBENCH\fP.
.IP "-"
build a \fBtbw\fP(1) command to start \fITBENCH\fP.
.IP "-"
build a \fBti_rri\fP(1) command which starts \fBtbw\fP via \fB\-\-run\fP
.IP "-"
create a ti_rri command list with
.IP "  -" 4
setup commands resulting from \fB\-\-cuff\fP, \fB\-\-fusp\fP, ...
.IP "  -"
all optional \fICOMMANDS\fP
.IP "-" 2
create a shell pipe to filter the output with \fBtbfilt\fP(1) to determine
the success or failure.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
Note: \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP is implemented as a shell script. If options have an
argument it is separated by white space and not by '='! So write '--ghw\ xxx'
and not '--ghw=xxx' !
.
.\" -- --dry -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-dry\fP
dry run, prints the commands but doesn't execute
.
.\" -- --nomake ----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-nomake\fP
don't execute make step (\fITBENCH\fP neither build nor updated)
.
.\" -- --norun -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-norun\fP
don't execute test bench (useful to only execute make step)
.
.\" -- --lsuf ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-lsuf\ \fIsuff\fR
use '_\fIsuff\fR.log' as the suffix for the log file. The default is '_bsim.log'
.
.\" -- --stack -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-stack\ \fInnn\fR
use \fInnn\fP as \fBghdl\fP(1) stack size
.
.\" -- --ghw fname -------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-ghw\ \fIfname\fR
write a ghw file with name '\fIfname\fP.ghw'
.
.\" -- --tbw opts --------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-tbw\ \fIopts\fR
append \fIopts\fP to the \fBtbw\fP command
.
.\" -- --rri opts --------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-rri\ \fIopts\fR
append \fIopts\fP to the \fBti_rri\fP command
.
.\" -- --pack plist ------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-pack\ \fIplist\fR
add a '\-\-pack=\fIplist\fR' option to \fBti_rri\fP command
.
.\" -- --cuff ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-cuff\fR
use Cypress FX2 instead of serport, will generate appropriate 'rlc oob' commands.
For nexys2 and nexys3 designs.
.
.\" -- --fusp ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-fusp\fR
use 2nd serport, will generate appropriate 'rlc oob' commands.
For s3board, nexys2, and nexys3 designs.
.
.\" -- --sxon ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-sxon\fR
switched\ XON: enable XON flow control with SWI(1), will generate
appropriate 'rlc oob' commands and ti_rri \-\-fifo options.
For nexys4 designs.
.
.\" -- --hxon ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-hxon\fR
hardwired\ XON: will generate appropriate \fBti_rri\fP \fB\-\-fifo\fP options.
For basys3 and arty designs.
.
.\" -- --pcom ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-pcom\fR
enables that test bench comments are passed to \fIstdout\fP.
.
.\" -- --rlmon -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-rlmon\fR
configures the test bench to enable rlmon (rlink communication monitor, logs
all characters read and send by the rlink core).
Done in UUT, thus useful only for behavioral simulations.
.
.\" -- --rbmon -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-rbmon\fR
configures the test bench to enable rbmon (rbus monitor, logs all rbus
transactions).
Done in UUT, thus useful only for behavioral simulations.
.
.\" -- --bwait -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-bwait\fR\ \fItime\fR
add additional \fItime\fR ns startup waiting time for behavioral models.
.
.\" -- --swait -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-swait\fR\ \fItime\fR
add additional \fItime\fR ns startup waiting time for post-synthesis and
later models.

.\" -- --help ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-help\fR
print help message and quit.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tbw (1),
.BR ti_rri (1),
.BR tbfilt (1),
.BR ghdl (1)

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
