.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: tbrun.1 1188 2019-07-13 14:31:51Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2016-2019 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH TBRUN 1 2019-01-03 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
tbrun \- test bench driver
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY tbrun
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ DSCFILE ]
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtbrun\fP organizes the execution of large sets of test benches. It will

.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
read the file \fIDSCFILE\fP, which describes the full set of test benches.
The top level \fIDSCFILE\fP typically includes other files which allows to 
organize the description in a well structured manner. If no \fIDSCFILE\fP
is specified the file \fItbrun.yml\fP in the current working directory is
used.
.IP "-"
select based on the given \fB\-\-tag\fP and \fB\-\-exclude\fP options the 
tests to be executed in a given run.
.IP "-"
determine based on the \fB\-\-mode\fP option the simulation engine and
the simulation type, behavioral or post-synthesis or later. See section
MODES for details.
.IP "-"
execute the tests which as much parallelism as possible. The \fB\-\-jobs\fP
option specifies the maximal number of jobs, and a locking logic prevents that
more than one test is run in one working directory.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.
.\" -- --tag -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-tag=\fItlist\fR
specifies the tags a test must match to be selected for execution.
\fItlist\fR can be a comma separated list of tags, a test must match
all tags given in \fItlist\fR to be selected.
.br
\fB\-\-tag\fP can be specified multiple times, the selections are ored.
In effect, a test must match all tags in the \fItlist\fR of one of the
specified \fB\-\-tag\fP options.
.br
If no \fB\-\-tag\fP option is given an implicit \fI\-\-tag=default\fP is
assumed, so all tests with the tag 'default' are executed.
.
.\" -- --exclude ---------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-exclude=\fItlist\fR
specifies the tags a test must not match. \fItlist\fR can again be a comma
separated list, a test which matches all the tags given is excluded.
.br
\fB\-\-exclude\fP can be specified multiple times, the rejections are ored.
In effect, a test is rejected if it matches all tags in the \fItlist\fR of 
one of the specified \fB\-\-exclude\fP options.
.
.\" -- --all -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-all\fR
is simply a shortcut for \fB\-\-tag=".*"\fR and selects all tags. Can be
combined with \fB\-\-exclude\fP but not with other \fB\-\-tag\P options.
.
.\" -- --mode ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-mode=\fImlist\fR
determines the simulation engine and the type of simulation. Can be a
comma separated list, if several modes are specified all of them will
be executed.
.br 
If no \fB\-\-mode\fP is given the default value 'bsim' is used.
Note that unlike \fB\-\-tag\fP and \fB\-\-exclude\fP only a single
\fB\-\-mode\fP option is processed, if multiple are present only the
last one will be used.

.RS
Each mode specification has the format '[\fIengine\fP]_[\fItype\fP]' 
and follows the model name suffix rules of the build system.

If the \fIengine\fP part is omitted \fBghdl\fP(1) is assumed as default.
If the \fItype\fP part is omitted 'bsim' is assumed as default.
Other supported values for \fIengine\fP are
.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP \fBISim\fP 6
the Xilinx ISE build-in simulator
.IP \fBXSim\fP
the Xilinx Vivado build-in simulator
.PD
.RE

The \fItype\fP part has the following supported values
.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP \fBbsim\fP 6
behavioral simulation
.IP \fBssim\fP
post-synthesis functional simulation
.IP \fBfsim\fP
post-map simulation (only ISE)
.IP \fBosim\fP
post-optimize functional simulation (only Vivado)
.IP \fBrsim\fP
post-routing functional simulation (only Vivado)
.IP \fBesim\fP
post-synthesis timing simulation (only Vivado)
.IP \fBpsim\fP
post-optimize timing simulation (only Vivado)
.IP \fBtsim\fP
post-routing timing simulation
.PD
.RE
.RE
.
.\" -- --jobs ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-jobs=\fInjob\fR
.RS
specifies the maximal number of parallel jobs.
Without \fB\-\-jobs\fP option the tests are executed sequentially and
the test output is forwarded immediately to stdout.

With \fB\-\-jobs\fP option a task dispatcher is used which starts the jobs, 
received and buffers the test output, and forwards it to stdout when the 
job completes. The test outputs are always in the original selection order, 
thus not affected by the completion order. 

The task dispatcher displays also a progress line when stdout is a terminal
device of the format
.EX
    #-I: t047: 5l 35.6s; t053: 5l 20.2s (26t,2w,31o)
.EE
where 
.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "t***:" 6
specifies the current task number
.IP "**l"
number of output lines collected for this task
.IP "*.*s"
run time (as real time) of the task (running since time)
.IP "**t"
number of tasks still waiting for execution
.IP "*w"
number of tasks currently running
.IP "*o"
number of tasks in pending output queue
.PD
.RE

Note that \fB\-\-jobs\fP enables the task dispatcher and thus output
buffering and progress line output even when \fInjob\fP is '1' !
.RE
.
.\" -- --tee -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-tee=\fIoutfile\fR
if specified the all output send to stdout with the exception of the
progress line updates is also written in the file \fIoutfile\fR.
This is very convenient in conjunction with the \fB\-\-jobs\fP option
which generates progress line output only when stdout is a terminal
device.
Using shell pipes and \fBtee\fP(1) will therefore prevent progress lines,
use the \fB\-\-tee\fP instead to save the output into a file.
.
.\" -- --list ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-list\fP
list selected tags and quit.
.
.\" -- --dry -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-dry\fP
dry run, prints the generated commands, but doesn't execute.
When used without \-\-jobs\fP option a commented list of shell commands
is printed which describes the linear execution of the selected tests.
.br
When used together with \-\-jobs\fP this option mainly serves to debug
the task dispatcher. A random wait of 0.2 to 1.8 sec is generated for each
selected test.
.
\" -- --trace -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-trace\fP
prints additional information on job control.
.
.\" -- --nomake ----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-nomake\fP
don't execute make step of test bench. 
Will be forwarded to \fBtbrun_tbw\fP(1) and \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) 
based test benches.
.
\" -- --norun -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-norun\fP
don't execute run step of test bench, useful to only execute make step.
Will be forwarded to \fBtbrun_tbw\fP(1) and \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) 
based test benches.
.
\" -- --rlmon -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-rlmon\fP
enable the rlink monitor, will be forwarded to \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) 
based test benches.
.
\" -- --rbmon -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-rbmon\fP
enable the rbus monitor, will be forwarded to \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) 
based test benches.
.
.\" -- --bwait ----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-bwait=\fItwait\fR
specifies startup wait for behavioral simulations. 
\fItwait\fR must be an integer, time unit is 1 ns.  Will be forwarded 
to \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) based test benches.
.
.\" -- --swait ----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-swait=\fItwait\fR
specifies startup wait for post-synthesis and higher simulations. 
\fItwait\fR must be an integer, time unit is 1 ns.  Will be forwarded 
to \fBtbrun_tbwrri\fP(1) based test benches.
.
\" -- --help -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-help\fP
print short help text.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
In case of an error the exit codes are:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fB1\fP 3
run time errors, like bad option, file not found, etc
.IP \fB2\fP 3
at least one test FAILed, test bench has FAILed
.PD
.RE
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBtbrun" 4
Simplest default case, will use the \fItbrun.yml\fP file in the current
working directory, assume \fI\-\-tag=default\fP and \fI\-\-mode=bsim\fP 
and this select all tests tagged with 'default' and run the behavioral
simulation with \fBghdl\fP(1). Done in simple sequential mode.
.IP "\fBtbrun --jobs=2 --tag=viv,sys_w11a --mode=XSim" 4
Will select all tests which have a 'viv' and a 'sys_w11a' tag, 
use XSim as simulation engine and run the behavioral simulation.
Will use the task dispatcher and will try to run 2 tests in parallel.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tbrun_tbw (1),
.BR tbrun_tbwrri (1),
.BR tbfilt (1)

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
