.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: ti_rri.1 1234 2022-05-03 18:28:48Z mueller $
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\" Copyright 2013-2022 by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH TI_RRI 1 2017-01-08 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
ti_rri \- \fBRlink\fP Backend Server
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY ti_rri
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ COMMAND ]...
.YS
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBti_rri\fP command creates a \fBtclsh\fP(1) based \fBRlink\fP backend
server session. After loading all basic packages and shared libraries which
implement the Tcl binding of the \fBRlink\fP server the command

.RS 2
.PD 0
.IP "-" 2
creates the default \fIrlc\fP and \fIrls\fP commands representing the connection
and the server objects
.IP "-"
loads additional Tcl packages when requested with \fB\-\-pack\fP
.IP "-"
sets up logging and debug according to  \fB\-\-log\fP,  \fB\-\-logl\fP,
\fB\-\-dmpl\fP, and \fB\-\-tiol\fP
.IP "-"
sets up connection timeout according to  \fB\-\-tout\fP
.IP "-"
starts an additional process if requested with \fB\-\-run\fP
.IP "-"
opens a connection when requested with \fB\-\-fifo\fP, 
\fB\-\-term\fP, or \fB\-\-cuff\fP
.IP "-"
and finally executes all remaining \fICOMMANDS\fP arguments as Tcl commands
.PD
.RE
.PP
If no \fICOMMANDS\fP are present or if the \fB\-\-int\fP options is given
an interactive mode is entered with all features of \fBtclsh\fP(1) with
tclreadline loaded.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-pack=\fIplist\fR
load, with 'package require', additional packages. \fIplist\fP is a comma
separated list of package names. Note that the packages
.BR rutiltpp ,
.BR rlinktpp ,
and
.BR rlink
are automatically loaded already by \fBti_rri\fP.
.
.\" -- --run -------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-run=\fIcmd\fR
execute the shell command \fIcmd\fP as subprocess before the \fBrlink\fP
port is opened. This is mainly used to start \fBghdl\fP(1) based test
benches, usually via the \fBtbw\fP(1) wrapper script.
.
.\" -- --fifo ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-fifo\fR[=\fIname\fR[,\fIopts\fR]]
open a fifo type \fBrlink\fP port. It uses a named pipe, and is usually
employed in conjunction with the \fB\-\-run\fP option.
Optional arguments are
.RS
.IP \fBname\fP
name prefix for the named pipe file names. Default is 'rlink_cext_fifo'.
Two fifo's are generated, one with a '_tx' and one with a '_tx' appended
to the name prefix.
.IP \fBopts\fP
comma-separated list of further fifo port options:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fBkeep\fP
fifo is kept open on exit
.IP \fBxon\fP
software flow control (xon/xoff)
.IP \fBnoinit\fP
defer link initialization (debug or test benches)
.PD
.RE

Note: in general the default pipe names are used, thus \fIname\fP is rarely
specified. If only options are given an empty \fIname\fP field must be
specified like in \fB\-\-fifo=,xon\fP.
.RE

.
.\" -- --term ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-term\fR[=\fIname\fR[,\fIbaud\fR[,\fIopts\fR]]]
open a serial port type \fBrlink\fP port. Optional arguments are
.RS
.IP \fBname\fP
tty device name, default is 'USB0'. If \fIname\fP does not start with '/'
the name is prefixed with '/dev/tty'. The special device name 'USBD'
triggers the auto-detection of a Digilent board with an FT2232C based
interface.
.IP \fBbaud\fP
serial port baud rate, default is '115k'. Allowed baud rate settings are:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP "" 3
2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 19k, 38400, 38k,
57600, 57k, 115200, 115k, 230400, 230k,
460800, 460k, 500000, 500k, 921600, 921k,
1000000, 1000k, 1M, 1500000, 1500k,
2000000, 2000k, 2M, 2500000, 2500k,
3000000, 3000k, 3M, 4000000, 4000k, 4M,
5000000, 5000k, 5M, 6000000, 6000k, 6M,
1000000, 10000k, 10M, 12000000, 12000k, 12M

.PD
.RE
.IP \fBopts\fP
comma-separated list of further term port options:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fBbreak\fP
send a break, do autobaud
.IP \fBcts\fP
hardware flow control (cts/rts)
.IP \fBxon\fP
software flow control (xon/xoff)
.IP \fBnoinit\fP
defer link initialization (debug or test benches)
.PD
.RE
.RE
.
.\" -- --cuff ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-cuff\fR[=\fIname\fR[,\fIopts\fR]]
open a USB via Cypress FX2 type \fBrlink\fP port. Optional arguments are
.RS
.IP \fBname\fP
USB path, default derived from environment variables \fBRETRO_FX2_VID\fP and 
\fBRETRO_FX2_PID\fP.
.IP \fBopts\fP
comma-separated list of further cuff port options:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fBtrace\fP
trace USB activities
.IP \fBnoinit\fP
defer link initialization (debug or test benches)
.PD
.RE
.RE
.
.\" -- --log ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-log=\fIfile\fR
set log file name. Default is to write to \fBstdout\fP(3).
.
.\" -- --logl -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-logl=\fIlvl\fR
set rlink logging level. Default is '2', allowed values are:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fB0\fP 3
no logging
.IP \fB1\fP 3
log rlink commands with communication errors
.IP \fB2\fP 3
log rlink commands with failed checks
.IP \fB3\fP 3
log all rlink commands
.PD
.RE
.
.\" -- --dmpl -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-dmpl=\fIlvl\fR
set rlink dump level. Default is '0', allowed values are as for the
\fB\-\-logl\fP option.
.
.\" -- --tiol -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-tiol=\fIlvl\fR
set I/O trace level. Default is '0', allowed values are:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP \fB0\fP 3
no I/O trace
.IP \fB1\fP 3
trace buffer activities
.IP \fB2\fP 3
trace character activities
.PD
.RE
.
.\" -- --tout -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-tout=\fIdt\fR
set connection timeout. Default is '1.'. Must be >0. . Should be set to a
larger value when slow simulators are connected, e.g. post-implementation
timing models.
.
.\" -- --int ------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-int\fP
enter interactive mode even when further Tcl commands are given on the
\fBti_rri\fP command line.
.
.\" -- --help -----------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-help\fP
print help text and exit
.
.\" -- -- ---------------------------------------
.IP \fB\-\-\fP
all following arguments are treated as Tcl commands.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COMMANDS
For arguments of the form '@<name>.tcl' the respective file is
sourced. All other arguments are treated as Tcl commands and executed
with eval.
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP "\fBti_rri --fifo --run='tbw tb_tst_rlink_n4'" 4
Starts the \fBghdl\fP(1) test bench 'tb_tst_rlink_n4' located in CWD via 
\fBtbw\fP(1). It is assumed that the local \fItbw.dat\fP file configures
fifo communication for the test bench.
.
.IP "\fBti_rri --fifo=,xon --run='tbw tb_tst_rlink_arty'" 4
Like above, starts arty rather n4 test bench. The rlink is operated with
software flow control. Note the comma in front of \fIxon\fP, required to
ensure that the default pipe name is used !

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ti_w11 (1),
.BR ghdl (1),
.BR tbw (1),
.BR tclsh (1)

.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
