.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"  $Id: vbom.5 522 2013-05-24 17:50:29Z mueller $
.\"
.\" Copyright 2010- by Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
.\" 
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.TH VBOM 2010-07-25 "Retro Project" "Retro Project Manual"
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
vbom \- 'vhdl bill of material' file format
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
These files describe the sources needed to build a \fIvhdl\fP
module. The source files are either given directly in case of libraries
or via other \fIvbom\fP's in case of instantiated components. 
They are used by \fBvbomconv\fP(1) to build project descriptions 
for synthesis and simulation tools.

The format has four types of lines:
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP \fBcomments\fP
each line starting with \fB#\fP is treated as comment and ignored.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fBfile names\fP"
either source files with a '\fI.vhd\fP' file type or nested \fIvbom\fP's
with a '\fI.vbom\fP' file type. The must be given as relative path name
from the directory the \fIvbom\fP file is located in. 
Absolute path names are not allowed, nor is expansion of environment variables. 
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP "\fBlogical names\fP"
A logical name can be defined with
.EX
    <lname> = <filename> 
.EE
The first definition of a logical name encountered in the traversal of the
\fIvbom\fP's by \fBvbomconv\fP(1) is taken, all later definitions are ignored.

A logical name can be used with
.EX
    <lname> : <filename> 
.EE
If it wasn't ???


Again, the filenames, either of type \fI.vhd\fP or \fI.vbom\fP ,
must be given as relative path name from the directory the \fIvbom\fP
file is located in.

The definition clause just sets up the logical name for later usage.
The usage clause 

.\" ----------------------------------------------
.IP \fBdirectives\fP
The format is simple, essentially a list of file names, either
source files with a '\fI.vhd\fP' file type or nested \fIvbom\fP's
with a '\fI.vbom\fP' file type. 
Lines starting with \fB#\fP are treated as comments.


.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vbomconv (1)
.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Walter F.J. Mueller <W.F.J.Mueller@gsi.de>
